README.md, before:

<!--h-->
# Avatar Manager

[![StyleCI](https://styleci.io/repos/94704466/shield?branch=master)](https://styleci.io/repos/94704466)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/d84efcf2530348d29f2ca573d06f7314)](https://www.codacy.com/app/laravel-enso/AvatarManager?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=laravel-enso/AvatarManager&utm_campaign=badger)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel-enso/avatarmanager/license)](https://https://packagist.org/packages/laravel-enso/avatarmanager)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel-enso/avatarmanager/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/laravel-enso/avatarmanager)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel-enso/avatarmanager/version)](https://packagist.org/packages/laravel-enso/avatarmanager)
<!--/h-->

User Avatar manager dependency for [Laravel Enso](https://github.com/laravel-enso/Enso).

[![Watch the demo](https://laravel-enso.github.io/avatarmanager/screenshots/bulma_cap001_thumb.png)](https://laravel-enso.github.io/avatarmanager/videos/bulma_avatar_change.webm)
<sup>click on the photo to view a short demo in compatible browsers</sup>

## Features

- comes with a table migration, in order to be able to store avatar related data
- includes model, routes & controllers
- creates a folder used to store the avatar files and a default avatar for users that do not have an avatar set
- uses the [File Manager](https://github.com/laravel-enso/FileManager) package for uploading the avatar files.
- uses the [Image Transformer](https://github.com/laravel-enso/ImageTransformer) package for cropping and optimizing the avatar files.

## Publishes

- `php artisan vendor:publish --tag=avatars-storage` - storage folder and default avatar

### Notes

The [Laravel Enso](https://github.com/laravel-enso/Enso) package comes with this package included.

Depends on:
 - [Core](https://github.com/laravel-enso/Core) for middleware and user model 
 - [ImageTransformer](https://github.com/laravel-enso/ImageTransformer) for the optimization of avatar images
 - [FileManager](https://github.com/laravel-enso/FileManager) for managing the image files
 - [Structure manager](https://github.com/laravel-enso/StructureManager) for the migrations


<!--h-->
### Contributions

are welcome. Pull requests are great, but issues are good too.

### License

This package is released under the MIT license.
<!--/h-->

Commit message:

updated documentation, added note about image optimization and memory limits; Closes #5

README.md, after:

<!--h-->
# Avatar Manager

[![StyleCI](https://styleci.io/repos/94704466/shield?branch=master)](https://styleci.io/repos/94704466)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/d84efcf2530348d29f2ca573d06f7314)](https://www.codacy.com/app/laravel-enso/AvatarManager?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=laravel-enso/AvatarManager&utm_campaign=badger)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel-enso/avatarmanager/license)](https://https://packagist.org/packages/laravel-enso/avatarmanager)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel-enso/avatarmanager/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/laravel-enso/avatarmanager)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel-enso/avatarmanager/version)](https://packagist.org/packages/laravel-enso/avatarmanager)
<!--/h-->

User Avatar manager dependency for [Laravel Enso](https://github.com/laravel-enso/Enso).

[![Watch the demo](https://laravel-enso.github.io/avatarmanager/screenshots/bulma_cap001_thumb.png)](https://laravel-enso.github.io/avatarmanager/videos/bulma_avatar_change.webm)
<sup>click on the photo to view a short demo in compatible browsers</sup>

### Features

- comes with a table migration, in order to be able to store avatar related data
- includes model, routes & controllers
- creates a folder used to store the avatar files and a default avatar for users that do not have an avatar set
- uses the [File Manager](https://github.com/laravel-enso/FileManager) package for uploading the avatar files
- uses the [Image Transformer](https://github.com/laravel-enso/ImageTransformer) package for cropping and optimizing the avatar files

### Notes on usage

Since this package is using image processing libraries and these underlying libraries may use a lot of memory, 
especially if the processed files are large (for example, for an 8MB image file, more than 128MB of memory might be used ),
make sure to configure php accordingly and/or do `ini_set(‘memory_limit’, ‘256M’);`   

Failure to do so may result in silent errors if alloted memory is insufficient.

### Publishes

- `php artisan vendor:publish --tag=avatars-storage` - storage folder and default avatar

### Notes

The [Laravel Enso](https://github.com/laravel-enso/Enso) package comes with this package included.

Depends on:
 - [Core](https://github.com/laravel-enso/Core) for middleware and user model 
 - [ImageTransformer](https://github.com/laravel-enso/ImageTransformer) for the optimization of avatar images
 - [FileManager](https://github.com/laravel-enso/FileManager) for managing the image files
 - [Structure manager](https://github.com/laravel-enso/StructureManager) for the migrations


<!--h-->
### Contributions

are welcome. Pull requests are great, but issues are good too.

### License

This package is released under the MIT license.
<!--/h-->
